$50,000 my girlfriend melissa is gonna
end up $50,000 in debt learning Chinese
and getting a degree in Asian Studies
here at the University of Victoria and
it's exactly the same University program
that I was enrolled in fully five years
ago before I went away to live in Yunnan
China before we went away to live
together in Taiwan before we enrolled in
baking college ended up getting kicked
out of baking college or asked to quit
making college because we were vegan and
the college couldn't handle have vegan
students even though they promised a
mess they could it's been a long rocky
road these last five years but melissa
has made the commitment or is taking the
gamble to now enroll at University of
Victoria and try to get formal education
in Asian Studies which means the
politics of Asia the history of Asia
book learning related Asia but obviously
a big part of our current task outside
of the classroom just the two of us
sitting here at this very desk is to
teach ourselves Chinese advance in
progress in reach higher and higher
levels of ability in Chinese $50,000 in
debt is a lot of money to anyone and
it's a lot of money to us I do not know
if in the next two years I will have to
go into debt myself and that is
basically the topic of this video I
don't get asked about my financial
situation I guess if I ever do it's
other youtubers once you know how much
money I make which I've been incredibly
honest and forthcoming about unlike
everything else in my life and I right
away I send them a link to oh yeah this
is how much I make per month and you
know I just lay out the facts now while
I was in Taiwan I did make enough money
from YouTube to pay my rent but that was
just because my rent was hilariously low
Taiwan I was living in a small town
called Puli in the central Taiwan
somewhere I'll probably never see again
anyway long long strange story as to how
I ended up in in Puli but yeah if your
rent is low enough and you earn $400 a
month
YouTube and patreon combined then you
can pay your friends back with what you
earn but no in my current circumstances
and for the foreseeable future I am
financially dependent on support from my
mother I would say my parents but my
father is now deceased and that
financial support is finite but we don't
know how finite it's gonna prove to be
right now during coronavirus the family
fortune and the family business is in an
unpredictable if not dire straits and
that's okay one of the reasons to be
here in Victoria rather than being in
Beijing or Thailand or Taiwan is that if
my mother really does run out of money
she can no longer support me going back
to university at least here I will have
the legal right to work whether I have
to get a job at a 7-eleven or a gas
station or grocery store if I have to
get some very humble work to keep going
I can do it now I never want to
misrepresent myself as broke I don't do
eBay ghing I don't I don't do
fundraising unless it's for a specific
project with a specific outcome like
when I raised funds for for court case I
made a post in text form on patreon
recently where I was relating my strange
struggles with university professors and
how dishonest some of these university
professors have been with me and how I
think they lie to themselves also about
the significance of money in meritocracy
professors when they think I'm poor they
tell me one thing and then the minute I
say oh no my parents can afford to pay
for me to go to school here their whole
act changed this is you know these
strange differences in attitude and you
know some professors are in denial but
the extent to which access to higher
education relies on your having money up
front and some someone give themselves
someone kid you so had a post stating
this and one of my turns of phrase there
it's we're calling an anecdote where I
had this sort of interaction with a
professor I said this professor look the
problem is not money the problem is that
there are no universities offering me
you know a legitimate opportunity to get
education and emphasize
that point I said look if there were one
University in the United Kingdom England
Scotland there were one University that
offered me you know a genuinely valuable
educational opportunity to learn an
Asian language to get a degree that
could lead to employment where I would
really benefit subjectively also in
terms of my career my parents could
could afford to pay for it not just
tuition they could afford to buy me a
solid gold desk and a fountain pen
encrusted in diamonds now obviously I
was joking my parents would not buy me a
solid gold desk but I was saying to this
professor in this email correspondence
look what really matters is whether or
not the educational opportunity is worth
it and my parents at their current stage
of life again my father now deceased but
in the final years of his life they did
have the attitude that they did not have
when I was younger that if there were a
real educational opportunity for me that
it would be worth them going into debt
also be worth paying any price for
that's that's common among Chinese
immigrant families that's common in many
cultures to really see the value of
education that way or even if you don't
have the money to go on to pay for it
now it's interesting when I was younger
my parents did not have that opportunity
and these things which my ferret's
refusal to support me when it really
mattered screwed up my life is a very
interesting topic for for another video
I pointed out to my mother I guess it
was about five years ago that I wanted
to enroll in a class in to learn Chinese
in Toronto back in 2000 2001 some of
this was way way back well when I was
young and that class was taught in the
high school system so that was part of
the adult night school program offered
by Toronto's high school system so it
was adult learning night classes but
physically in a high school so not a
high school course I think it was I
think it was $200 Canadian maybe it was
even less it was like $180 there was
only a symbolic fee because it was
really provided by the you know Toronto
public school system by the government
right and my parents would not pay it
and they had this but these are my
parents you know any one of my father
was already working in
years my father had done work in China I
did Sloane backwards they knew the
importance of it they knew about you
they knew all this stuff they would not
pay for me to have this this course and
you know what part of the good and the
bad of it definitely with my father and
my mother to assert lesser extent my
father saw a lot of his money wasted on
education for his other sons who very
simply were not intellectuals and never
would be intellectuals and he never made
anything positive of that opportunity
one of his sons kept dropping out of
university again and again it cost him a
lot of money and he would keep paying
for this son to go back and you know guy
was a [ __ ] at the beginning he was a
[ __ ] in the middle he's a [ __ ] in the
end he's just not that kind of guy that
guy did some purely physical jobs that I
think he was good at and that he enjoyed
I remember he had a period of time as a
bike courier remember him telling me
about that he had a period of time
actually in modern dance
again a very purely physical thing he is
not a book-learning type of guy and it
doesn't matter how much money you pour
on him you know you you can't you can't
pay someone enough to make them want to
learn you know you can't buy the
motivation and that kind of character is
you know something intangible you know
another one of my half-brothers he
finally did get a master's degree every
time you meet that guy doesn't matter if
it's over five years ten years thirty
years every time you meet him he's
telling you a story about the last time
he got drunk but the last time he got
high on drugs including hard drugs like
peyote LSD cocaine heroin like he'll
tell you heroin stories that's kind of
cut yes and I don't pry it's not like
I'm asking questions that leave he'll
right up front tell you stories with us
and he's telling you stories about
chasing women getting laid that's the
kind of guy he is
and my father paid a lot of money for
his education in his case a master's
screwed know peachy but guess what you
know at the beginning middle Amanda that
he sounded like the stereotype burnout
he sounded like someone you know just
his tone of voice his manner of speaking
his habit tests his behavior he sounds
like a drugged up loser he sang
like someone has been using our drugs
since his teenage years and that's
exactly what he is and III talked about
it with my father just once again before
he died it was not not long before he
died where my father was relating to me
how these professors my brother had had
said different kind of discouraging and
critical things to him and you know my
father was basically relating the
subpoena fair and I said to him you know
Barry has it not occurred to you that
what these professors are saying is just
literally true that this is quite
reasonable I said can you take a step
back and just listen to your son's voice
can you listen to how this guy sounds
and how he conducts himself like do you
not notice that he'll ask you a question
and five years later I'll ask you the
exact same question he has no memory of
the answer you gave last time like do
you not know this like can you really
not recognize that your son has all the
signs of like a long-term alcoholic drug
user etc and if you not notice that
that's what it's like revolves around
his drugs alcohol and sleeping with
women like that's that's how he presents
himself it's not concealed but can you
not see this and the answer for my
father was no he could not see it was a
great example of a parent just not
wanting to see the reality for the
kiddies
so look my parents had their own
negative experiences with the university
education when they had their own
negative experiences with paying for
their kids to go to university that's
not an excuse for the way in which they
up my life back in like 1993 to
2003 like many many chapters ago they
made a lot of really bad decisions that
have really negative long-term
consequence to me and they refused to
support me when it mattered however
having had all those experiences and for
them they've seen a lot of proof of what
kind of creative writer I am what kind
of researcher I am the ways in which I
can use my mind and intelligence
productively the ways in which I really
am an intellectual unlike some of my
brothers and sisters you know they know
what I can do so what would be the point
of me working at a 7-eleven or me
working at a Starbucks by the way back
in back in when I was a kid and it
mattered
I did work at Starbucks
another story I did work at a Whole
Foods Market at a grocery store my
parents did force me to do those kinds
of jobs which completely up and
ruined my university education back when
it mattered so again another story so
you know but in their old old age having
had to have experiences in bed they are
at this juncture one is for me
but that whole anecdote about the
solid-gold desk the point of that is
even when the problem isn't lack of
money and the problem isn't that I have
low grades at University of Victoria
that there still is no positive
opportunity for me
moving forward I'm completely happy to
be honest with my audience about what my
financial situation is I'm completely
honest honest about my career education
situation that is very fundamentally and
integrally why I came on YouTube in the
first place
I'm willing to be honest a bit of fun
thanks know be honest about it and you
know if I weren't I would feel ashamed
in looking back at my youtube videos and
seeing a lot of half-truths and lies and
I don't for me it's wonderful that
YouTube is my diary and it's also my way
of sharing my life with my daughter who
I now very rarely get to see I'm
divorced with a daughter growing up in
Europe she can watch these videos she
can learn from my experience good bad
indifferent she can she can to our own
conclusions but in terms of what I'm
going to do now and what's happening
next to my life I'm gonna be honest to
you right now
lack of money is not a problem for me
three months from now six months ago it
could be it could be that my life
becomes a financial struggle and if so
I'll be just as honest with you about
that then as I'm being honest with you
about my current situation now I don't
ask people to donate more than one
dollar per month on patreon I have not
been eBay game for many years now you
know there was a very different
situation years and years ago now it's
like four years ago where I needed money
for a court case and I did a fundraiser
just for that court case and the money
raised from the fundraiser a hundred
percent of it went to rightly to the
lawyer I paid for my own airplane
tickets to fly in and out and attend the
court case by the way I paid for my own
hotel rooms I didn't do any fundraising
for that right it was just money to pay
for the lawyer very different situation
and that's program funding if I were
raising money for a particular thing I
don't know there's a homeless donkey
walking the streets and we want to do a
vegan fundraiser try to get this donkey
into a you know sanctuary for me I would
do that and I would say hey look the
money's going to the donkey fine want to
donate it to you I would do that I would
do fundraiser for a specific thing where
it's good and the money isn't going to
me the money isn't going to feed me but
the truth is is say the patreon is one
dollar a month I don't ask anyone to pay
five dollars I don't ask you to pay
twenty dollars there are no higher rungs
I'm a pin just asked for one dollar a
month and why would you do that why
should you do that for the same reason
that I would do that if I were somebody
else
discovering this YouTube channel if I
were in the audience I would really
appreciate this content I'm putting on
you I would want to see this comment and
I would want to pay one dollar to have
the ability to chitchat with the Creator
and you know have the kind of content
have the bonuses and have videos made in
response to my questions Chapman's all
the time terms of patreon supporters
talking to me I know I would want to
support that person I would want to show
that I care and I would want to have
that interaction and one dollar a month
these dashing saying was it's less than
the cup price of a cup of coffee well I
think coffee is three dollars and fifty
cents print it's it's symbolic and you
know what's not symbolic if you want to
help the channel if you want to help me
have like a career on YouTube is
actually sharing the link when there's a
video on a topic that's interesting and
you actually know people or you know a
Facebook group or you know a retic group
if you know people for whom a particular
video will be meaningful or interesting
and you share the link that really is
helping me because even if money is not
scarce in your life even if you're not
running away from poverty it's very very
hard to be motivated to spend six hours
or 12 hours researching and then
recording a video in my case it's the
research not the recording that takes
time very easy for me to actually do the
performance as you've noticed but you
know I have in the past put a lot of
time into researching recording a video
and then if that video only gets 400
views for me that is really defeating
for reasons that have nothing to do with
the money that
would be made or actually is made out of
YouTube it has nothing to do with the
extent to which you know like I will
still be able to buy groceries
if only 400 people watch that video or
if nobody sports mood that's not the
problem right but the problem is in my
own life how do i prioritize putting
those twelve hours into researching and
recording a youtube video as opposed to
studying chinese as opposed to spending
quality time with my girlfriend as
opposed to doing another two hundred
push-ups as opposed to talking to my
lawyer and weeping about the fact that i
don't get to see my daughter fill in the
blank right we all have other things to
do and i don't make youtube videos for
myself this isn't a form of talk therapy
for me I really do it to reach out to
and communicate with an audience I
really do it for the long-term directed
into right political and social
consequences of making the few YouTube
videos available online I very briefly I
wrote fan mail to a guy yesterday who
had done book reviews in text form on
the internet and he stopped writing the
book reviews in 2011 like I found his
blog with the book future posted and I
sent him fan mail and said look you know
I just want to thank you for those book
reviews you did more than ten years ago
I found them and I know that it's not
rewarding making this kind of content on
the Internet I know that being creative
taking the time to write an essay like
this thing I know how how cold and
lonesome it can be to create some of
this and put on the Internet then you
hear nothing positive back from it or
maybe maybe you have a view tracker and
you know in ten years only 50 people
clicked on that book review and read
you're right and you know I know so I'm
sending you this email now to really
thank you and I want you to know that
when you when you do create some of that
you put it on the Internet it can have
positive consequences ten years down the
line it can have positive consequences
twenty years 200 years down the line you
know so it's hard to be positively
motivated it's hard when only 400 people
watch a video it can be hard when only
2,000 people watch a video but yes my
point here is simply quite apart from
monetary reward quite apart from the
question of whether
I can afford my next bottle of soy milk
that's not my situation my right the
question of reaching an audience and
creating conflicts creating content
that's meaningful an audience and
getting that feedback hearing back now
whether it's through patreon or the
video being shared that matters to me
and if you're my audience help matters
to you too